Delay session changes' effects on parachains by 1 block (#1354)
paritytech/polkadot: roadmap/implementors-guide/src/runtime/README.md

The [Initializer module](initializer.md) is special - it's responsible for handling the initialization logic of the other modules to ensure that the correct initialization order and related invariants are maintained. The other modules won't specify a on-initialize logic, but will instead expose a special semi-private routine that the initialization module will call. The other modules are relatively straightforward and perform the roles described above.

> The Parachain Host operates under a changing set of validators. Time is split up into periodic sessions, where each session brings a potentially new set of validators. Sessions are buffered by one, meaning that the validators of the upcoming session are fixed and always known. Parachain Host runtime modules need to react to changes in the validator set, as it will affect the runtime logic for processing candidate backing, availability bitfields, and misbehavior reports. The Parachain Host modules can't determine ahead-of-time exactly when session change notifications are going to happen within the block (note: this depends on module initialization order again - better to put session before parachains modules).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Parachain Host operates under a changing set of validators. Time is split up into periodic sessions, where each session brings a potentially new set of validators. Sessions are buffered by one, meaning that the validators of the upcoming session `n+1` are determined at the end of session `n-1`, right before session `n` starts. Parachain Host runtime modules need to react to changes in the validator set, as it will affect the runtime logic for processing candidate backing, availability bitfields, and misbehavior reports. The Parachain Host modules can't determine ahead-of-time exactly when session change notifications are going to happen within the block (note: this depends on module initialization order again - better to put session before parachains modules).
```

Reviewer: Potentially too much detail, `fixed and always known` conveys sth slightly different to me though

> The relay chain is intended to use BABE or SASSAFRAS, which both have the property that a session changing at a block is determined not by the number of the block but instead by the time the block is authored. In some sense, sessions change in-between blocks, not at blocks. This has the side effect that the session of a child block cannot be determined solely by the parent block's identifier. Being able to unilaterally determine the validator-set at a specific block based on its parent hash would make a lot of Node-side logic much simpler.

Reviewer: `In some sense, sessions change in-between blocks, not at blocks.` not sure what this means

Author: BABE / SASSAFRAS drives session changes in Polkadot. The session (epoch in BABE terms) ends at slot 4000. But you don't have a block with slot 4000 in the chain for some reason like offline validators. Instead, you have a block at slot 3990 and 4010. So the session logically changes between those blocks from BABE's perspective.

Reviewer: So the session change does not necessarily require the existence of a block at the point of change, but can happen between blocks. The example helps.

> In order to regain the property that the validator set of a block is predictable by its parent block, we delay session changes' application to Parachains by 1 block. This means that if there is a session change at block X, that session change will be stored and applied during initialization of direct descendents of X. This principal side effect of this change is that the Parachains runtime can disagree with session or consensus modules about which session it currently is. Misbehavior reporting routines in particular will be affected by this, although not severely.

Reviewer: `by this, although not severely` describe how they are affected briefly
